We are testing the BMW 435i Convertible today
to relive one of our favorite days so far
last year, we were here with a previous generation M3 Convertible
it was a glorious day
great weather, like it is now
and today we will do it all again with the 435i Convertible
it used to be a 3-series but it's called a 4-series now as you know
this is it
let's start with a feature which is really helpful for us
normally when we film a convertible
the car offers too little space for all of our stuff
it has to be under a cover and you can't reach it properly
but BMW have a great solution
we have quite a lot of gear with us
tripods, camera bag and another bigger case
when you need something it just doesn't work
but BMW have made this ingenious system
how does it work again?
right, this button here
when you push it the entire roof construction is raised
push back this cover
and suddenly there is a lot of space and it's accessible
very smart
close this and push the button to lower it
extremely easy
and we're ready to drive
inside here it's all very BMW
not very distinct but a very nice place to be
the beautiful BMW gear lever
and a nice screen
we have the -35i today
you can also get a -28i and a -20d
I can already tell you, you should get the -35i
the -28i with 245HP is about €6k less expensive
but believe me, the -35i is worth the price difference
it has a fantastic six-cylinder engine with turbo
this engine has been around for a while
since the previous generation 3-series
and it has just evolved so much since then
it is really very refined
it still has 306 hp and 400Nm
it does 0-100km/h in 5.5 seconds and a topspeed of 250km/h
the sound of a six-cylinder is just delicious
so we have established that the -35i is the one to have
the next choice is between a manual or automatic gearbox
we have the automatic gearbox
and keeping up with Porsches
is no problem at all
it shifts insanely fast
and it's just an ordinary automatic gearbox
it's less nervous than a double clutch equivalent
but it does have the speed of one
I can safely say that this is the best gearbox available
it's fantastic
10 out of 10
very impressive
the one we're driving today is fitted with the "M" package
which makes it just a tad more firm and direct
it is a delight to drive
it's not a real "M"
so It's not razor sharp
so not suited for driving on the track
but it just feels good
as usual you can have practically any optional extra you want
one of which is this great Harman/Kardon sound system
you might think it's not necessary
and that you can't really tell the difference
at least that is what I always think
until you crank the volume in this car
you can really hear that it's something special
the sound quality is extremely good
so it handles pretty good
if you want a super sharp 4-series
you have to wait for the M4
but this engine makes up for it
because it has been around for a while
the tuners know their way around it
I think that is one of the cool things about a -35i engine
you can get "M-perfomance" figueres from this block
some quite basic tuning will get it up to 400+ hp
so, like with the Audi S4 Avant Max tested
this car can evolve alongside you
if you want more power
or a better sound through a new exhaust system
it can be done by one of the many BMW tuners there are
especially an exhaust will do great things on this car
it also does sound great right now
you get some great crackles when you release the gas pedal
or with a downshift
it's not overdone
it sounds quite civilized
as a -35i should sound
we have had a great day today
like we had with the M3
beautiful weather
great amount of power
gorgeous car which handles nicely
and the top down
these are the days for which we live
I especially want to thank BMW Van Laarhoven in Eindhoven (NL)
for lending us the car
please pay them a visit if you are interested in this car
they are very enthusiastic and very helpful over there
the only thing you have to decide
do you want a coupe or a convertible?
I know I would want to have the top down
but let us know what you would have!